# Suffice: Scalable Clustering Over High Dimensional Vector Streams
As a data preprocessing step, clustering high-dimensional vector streams plays a critical role in many applications such as recommendation, community detection in social networks, and anomaly detection in large-scale computer networks. In this work, we propose a scalable framework, Suffice, to cluster high-dimensional vectors in streaming environments that continuously experience three fundamental types of data update including entry values, vectors, and dimensions. Suffice features a new clustering definition that is native to the dynamic and high-dimensional nature of vector streams. Moreover, it incorporates two key optimizations. First, to minimize the frequency of pairwise similarity comparisons between vectors, we design an adaptive multiple reference strategy that dynamically selects multiple reference vectors per cluster. Each reference vector in a cluster is associated with a safe zone such that any vector falling into it is guaranteed to belong to this cluster. We design a reward function to select reference vectors that jointly maximize the size of the safe region, thus minimizing the chance of conducting extra similarity comparisons when determining the cluster membership of incoming vectors. Second, we introduce a double-hash structure that efficiently supports both nearest neighbor-based and furthest neighbor-based similarity searches, critical to selecting and searching reference vectors. Using both real-world and synthetic streaming datasets, our comprehensive experimental studies confirm that Suffice outperforms baselines with a speedup from 18× to 110× in run time.
